Readme.md, before:

# Feedsearch Crawler
![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/feedsearch-crawler.svg)
![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/feedsearch-crawler.svg)
![PyPI - License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/feedsearch-crawler.svg)

Feedsearch Crawler is a Python library for searching websites for [RSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSS), [Atom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atom_(Web_standard)), and [JSON](https://jsonfeed.org/) feeds.

It is a continuation of my work on [Feedsearch](https://github.com/DBeath/feedsearch), which is itself a continuation of the work done by [Dan Foreman-Mackey](http://dfm.io/) on [Feedfinder2](https://github.com/dfm/feedfinder2), which in turn is based on [feedfinder](http://www.aaronsw.com/2002/feedfinder/) - originally written by [Mark Pilgrim](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Pilgrim_(software_developer)) and subsequently maintained by
[Aaron Swartz](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aaron_Swartz) until his untimely death.

Feedsearch Crawler differs with all of the above in that it is now built as an asynchronous [Web crawler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_crawler) for [Python 3.7](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-370/) and above, using [asyncio](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html) and [aiohttp](https://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), to allow much more rapid scanning of possible feed urls.

An implementation using this library to provide a public Feed Search API is available at https://feedsearch.auctorial.com

## Installation
The library is available on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/feedsearch-crawler/):

```
pip install feedsearch-crawler
```

The library requires Python 3.7+.

## Usage
Feedsearch Crawler is called with the single function ``search``:

``` python
>>> from feedsearch_crawler import search
>>> feeds = search('xkcd.com')
>>> feeds
[FeedInfo('https://xkcd.com/rss.xml'), FeedInfo('https://xkcd.com/atom.xml')]
>>> feeds[0].url
URL('https://xkcd.com/rss.xml')
>>> str(feeds[0].url)
'https://xkcd.com/rss.xml'
>>> feeds[0].serialize()
{'url': 'https://xkcd.com/rss.xml', 'title': 'xkcd.com', 'version': 'rss20', 'score': 24, 'hubs': [], 'description': 'xkcd.com: A webcomic of romance and math humor.', 'is_push': False, 'self_url': '', 'favicon': 'https://xkcd.com/s/919f27.ico', 'content_type': 'text/xml; charset=UTF-8', 'bozo': 0, 'site_url': 'https://xkcd.com/', 'site_name': 'xkcd: Chernobyl', 'favicon_data_uri': '', 'content_length': 2847}
```

If you are already running in an [asyncio event loop](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-eventloop.html), then you can import and await ``search_async`` instead. The ``search`` function is only a wrapper that runs ``search_async`` in a new asyncio event loop.

``` python
from feedsearch_crawler import search_async

feeds = await search_async('xkcd.com')
```

A search will always return a list of *FeedInfo* objects, each of which will always have a *url* property, which is a [URL](https://yarl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html) object that can be decoded to a string with ``str(url)``.
The returned *FeedInfo* are sorted by the *score* value from highest to lowest, with a higher score theoretically indicating a more relevant feed compared to the original URL provided. A *FeedInfo* can also be serialized to a JSON compatible dictionary by calling it's ``.serialize()`` method.

The crawl logs can be accessed with:

``` python
import logging

logger = logging.getLogger("feedsearch_crawler")
```

## Search Arguments
``search`` and ``search_async`` take the following arguments:

``` python
search(
    url: str,
    try_urls: Union[List[str], bool]=False,
    concurrency: int=10,
    total_timeout: Union[float, aiohttp.ClientTimeout]=10,
    request_timeout: Union[float, aiohttp.ClientTimeout]=3,
    user_agent: str="Feedsearch Bot",
    max_content_length: int=1024 * 1024 * 10,
    max_depth: int=10,
    headers: dict=None,
    favicon_data_uri: bool=True
)
```

- **url**: *str*: The intial URL at which to search for feeds.
- **try_urls**: *Union[List[str], bool]*: An optional list of URL paths to query for feeds. Takes the origin of the *url* paramater and appends the provided paths. If no list is provided, but *try_urls* is **True**, then a list of common feed locations will be used.
- **concurrency**: *int*: An optional argument to specify the maximum number of concurrent HTTP requests.
- **total_timeout**: *float*: An optional argument to specify the time this function may run before timing out.
- **request_timeout**: *float*: An optional argument that controls how long before each individual HTTP request times out.
- **user_agent**: *str*: An optional argument to override the default User-Agent header.
- **max_content_length**: *int*: An optional argument to specify the maximum size in bytes of each HTTP Response.
- **max_depth**: *int*: An optional argument to limit the maximum depth of requests while following urls.
- **headers**: *dict*: An optional dictionary of headers to pass to each HTTP request.
- **favicon_data_uri**: *bool*: Optionally control whether to fetch found favicons and return them as a Data Uri.

## FeedInfo Values
In addition to the *url*, FeedInfo objects may have the following values:

- **bozo**: *int*: Set to 1 when feed data is not well formed or may not be a feed. Defaults 0.
- **content_length**: *int*: Current length of the feed in bytes.
- **content_type**: *str*: [Content-Type](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_type) value of the returned feed.
- **description**: *str*: Feed description.
- **favicon**: *URL*: [URL](https://yarl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html) of feed or site [Favicon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Favicon).
- **favicon_data_uri**: *str*: [Data Uri](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_URI_scheme) of Favicon.
- **hubs**: *List[str]*: List of [Websub](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebSub) hubs of feed if available.
- **is_push**: *bool*: True if feed contains valid Websub data.
- **score**: *int*: Computed relevance of feed url value to provided URL. May be safely ignored.
- **self_url**: *str*: *ref="self"* value returned from feed links. In some cases may be different from feed url.
- **site_name**: *str*: Name of feed's website.
- **site_url**: *URL*: [URL](https://yarl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html) of feed's website.
- **title**: *str*: Feed Title.
- **url**: *URL*: [URL](https://yarl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html) location of feed.
- **version**: *str*: Feed version [XML values](https://pythonhosted.org/feedparser/version-detection.html),
  or [JSON feed](https://jsonfeed.org/version/1).

Commit message:

Add last_updated date to feed_info items

Readme.md, after:

# Feedsearch Crawler
![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/feedsearch-crawler.svg)
![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/feedsearch-crawler.svg)
![PyPI - License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/feedsearch-crawler.svg)

Feedsearch Crawler is a Python library for searching websites for [RSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSS), [Atom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atom_(Web_standard)), and [JSON](https://jsonfeed.org/) feeds.

It is a continuation of my work on [Feedsearch](https://github.com/DBeath/feedsearch), which is itself a continuation of the work done by [Dan Foreman-Mackey](http://dfm.io/) on [Feedfinder2](https://github.com/dfm/feedfinder2), which in turn is based on [feedfinder](http://www.aaronsw.com/2002/feedfinder/) - originally written by [Mark Pilgrim](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Pilgrim_(software_developer)) and subsequently maintained by
[Aaron Swartz](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aaron_Swartz) until his untimely death.

Feedsearch Crawler differs with all of the above in that it is now built as an asynchronous [Web crawler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_crawler) for [Python 3.7](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-370/) and above, using [asyncio](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html) and [aiohttp](https://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), to allow much more rapid scanning of possible feed urls.

An implementation using this library to provide a public Feed Search API is available at https://feedsearch.auctorial.com

## Installation
The library is available on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/feedsearch-crawler/):

```
pip install feedsearch-crawler
```

The library requires Python 3.7+.

## Usage
Feedsearch Crawler is called with the single function ``search``:

``` python
>>> from feedsearch_crawler import search
>>> feeds = search('xkcd.com')
>>> feeds
[FeedInfo('https://xkcd.com/rss.xml'), FeedInfo('https://xkcd.com/atom.xml')]
>>> feeds[0].url
URL('https://xkcd.com/rss.xml')
>>> str(feeds[0].url)
'https://xkcd.com/rss.xml'
>>> feeds[0].serialize()
{'url': 'https://xkcd.com/rss.xml', 'title': 'xkcd.com', 'version': 'rss20', 'score': 24, 'hubs': [], 'description': 'xkcd.com: A webcomic of romance and math humor.', 'is_push': False, 'self_url': '', 'favicon': 'https://xkcd.com/s/919f27.ico', 'content_type': 'text/xml; charset=UTF-8', 'bozo': 0, 'site_url': 'https://xkcd.com/', 'site_name': 'xkcd: Chernobyl', 'favicon_data_uri': '', 'content_length': 2847}
```

If you are already running in an [asyncio event loop](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-eventloop.html), then you can import and await ``search_async`` instead. The ``search`` function is only a wrapper that runs ``search_async`` in a new asyncio event loop.

``` python
from feedsearch_crawler import search_async

feeds = await search_async('xkcd.com')
```

A search will always return a list of *FeedInfo* objects, each of which will always have a *url* property, which is a [URL](https://yarl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html) object that can be decoded to a string with ``str(url)``.
The returned *FeedInfo* are sorted by the *score* value from highest to lowest, with a higher score theoretically indicating a more relevant feed compared to the original URL provided. A *FeedInfo* can also be serialized to a JSON compatible dictionary by calling it's ``.serialize()`` method.

The crawl logs can be accessed with:

``` python
import logging

logger = logging.getLogger("feedsearch_crawler")
```

## Search Arguments
``search`` and ``search_async`` take the following arguments:

``` python
search(
    url: str,
    try_urls: Union[List[str], bool]=False,
    concurrency: int=10,
    total_timeout: Union[float, aiohttp.ClientTimeout]=10,
    request_timeout: Union[float, aiohttp.ClientTimeout]=3,
    user_agent: str="Feedsearch Bot",
    max_content_length: int=1024 * 1024 * 10,
    max_depth: int=10,
    headers: dict=None,
    favicon_data_uri: bool=True
)
```

- **url**: *str*: The intial URL at which to search for feeds.
- **try_urls**: *Union[List[str], bool]*: An optional list of URL paths to query for feeds. Takes the origin of the *url* paramater and appends the provided paths. If no list is provided, but *try_urls* is **True**, then a list of common feed locations will be used.
- **concurrency**: *int*: An optional argument to specify the maximum number of concurrent HTTP requests.
- **total_timeout**: *float*: An optional argument to specify the time this function may run before timing out.
- **request_timeout**: *float*: An optional argument that controls how long before each individual HTTP request times out.
- **user_agent**: *str*: An optional argument to override the default User-Agent header.
- **max_content_length**: *int*: An optional argument to specify the maximum size in bytes of each HTTP Response.
- **max_depth**: *int*: An optional argument to limit the maximum depth of requests while following urls.
- **headers**: *dict*: An optional dictionary of headers to pass to each HTTP request.
- **favicon_data_uri**: *bool*: Optionally control whether to fetch found favicons and return them as a Data Uri.

## FeedInfo Values
In addition to the *url*, FeedInfo objects may have the following values:

- **bozo**: *int*: Set to 1 when feed data is not well formed or may not be a feed. Defaults 0.
- **content_length**: *int*: Current length of the feed in bytes.
- **content_type**: *str*: [Content-Type](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_type) value of the returned feed.
- **description**: *str*: Feed description.
- **favicon**: *URL*: [URL](https://yarl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html) of feed or site [Favicon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Favicon).
- **favicon_data_uri**: *str*: [Data Uri](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_URI_scheme) of Favicon.
- **hubs**: *List[str]*: List of [Websub](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebSub) hubs of feed if available.
- **is_push**: *bool*: True if feed contains valid Websub data.
- **last_updated**: *datetime*: Date of the latest published entry.
- **score**: *int*: Computed relevance of feed url value to provided URL. May be safely ignored.
- **self_url**: *str*: *ref="self"* value returned from feed links. In some cases may be different from feed url.
- **site_name**: *str*: Name of feed's website.
- **site_url**: *URL*: [URL](https://yarl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html) of feed's website.
- **title**: *str*: Feed Title.
- **url**: *URL*: [URL](https://yarl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html) location of feed.
- **version**: *str*: Feed version [XML values](https://pythonhosted.org/feedparser/version-detection.html),
  or [JSON feed](https://jsonfeed.org/version/1).
